.TH "aec_cmdline" 1 0.0.1 "14 Feb 2022" "User Manual"

.SH NAME
aec_cmdline

.SH DESCRIPTION
A simple acoustic echo-cancelling commandline tool based on speexdsp.

This tool is removing unwanted acoustic loudspeaker-echo from microfone-recordings. It handles the incomming and outgoing audio-streams directly over stdin/stdout - either from raw audio-files or over pipes. The tool is reading a raw stereo 8kHz S16_LE input-track, holding the microphone-recording on the left and the unwanted echo signal (the loudspeaker reference-playback) on the right. This stereo-track is supplied from a virtual alsa loopback-device. The processed raw mono 8kHz S16_LE audio-output is then finally sent to stdout.



The kernel module snd-aloop is required and can be loaded by:
    sudo modprobe snd-aloop

.SH SYNOPSIS
Usage with raw audio files S16_LE 8 kHz:
    aec_cmdline < stereo_infile.raw > mono_outfile.raw

Usage with pipes e.g. aec with bluez-alsa arecord and aplay:
    arecord -f S16_LE -D bluealsa | aplay -D mono_mloopplay -f S16_LE -r 8000
    arecord -D aec_internal -f S16_LE -c 2 -r 8000 | aec_cmdline | aplay -D bluealsa -f S16_LE -c 1 -r 8000

.SH FILES
.TP
The alsa-loopback configuration 50-aec.conf is stored in /etc/alsa/conf.d/

.SH COPYRIGHT

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2022 dr-ni

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

.SH CONTACT
 Website: https://github.com/dr-ni/aec_cmdline

